nwjHkk"k% 0712&2590050] 2806100 

¼Hkkjr ljdkj dk midze½ 
ekW;y Hkou] 1, dkVksy jksM] ukxiqj& 440 013 
  osclkbZV% www.moil.nic.inQSDl% 0712-2592073 
CIN No.:L99999MH1962GOI012398 

PHONE : 0712-2590050, 2806100 

MOIL LIMITED 

(A Government of India Enterprise) 
MOIL Bhavan, 1A, Katol Road, NAGPUR–440 013 
Website: www.moil.nic.in Fax: 0712-2592073 
CIN No.:L99999MH1962GOI012398 

December 30, 2025 

RECRUITMENT OF GRADUATE TRAINEES / MANAGEMENT TRAINEES & 

MANAGER(SURVEY) 

Advertisement No.: GT/MT-MGR/12/2025 

MOIL  Limited  (formerly  known  as  Manganese  Ore  (India)  Limited)  is  a  Schedule  ‘A’ 

Miniratna category-I PSU under the Ministry of Steel, Government of India. MOIL is the 

largest Manganese ore producer in the country, operating ten mines spread in the states of 

Maharashtra  and  Madhya  Pradesh.  MOIL  has  set  up  a  plant  to  produce  Electrolytic 

Manganese Dioxide (EMD), which is used for manufacturing of dry battery cells. A Ferro 

Manganese plant having a capacity of 12,000 metric tonne per annum has also been put up 

by  the  company.  It  has  been  a  consistent  profit  making  PSU  from  decades.  As  per  the 

strategic Management plan formulated, MOIL plans to expand its production capacity to 

3.0 million tonnes by 2030 by increasing production of existing Mines and by opening of 

new Mines.  

MOIL invites application from young, vibrant and dynamic candidates, who are willing to 

grow  with  MOIL  for  recruitment  THROUGH  ONLINE  APPLICATION  MODE  only  for 

various posts of GRADUATE TRAINEES/ MANAGEMENT TRAINEES & MANAGER in 

different disciplines as per details given below: 

1. 

IMPORTANT DATES 

Activity 

Important Dates 

Opening  date  for  Online  Registration 

30/12/2025 (Tuesday) 

of Applications 

00:01 Hrs 

Last  date  of  Online  Submission  of 

20/01/2026 (Tuesday) 

Applications with Fee 

23:59 Hrs 

NOTE: 

i. 

Detailed instructions available on MOIL website www.moil.nic.in may please be 
referred at the time of applying online application. 

1 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ii. 

iii. 

Candidates, in their own interest are advised not to wait till the last date & time 
and  register  their  application  well  within  the  time.  MOIL  will  not  be  held 
responsible, if the candidates are unable to submit their application due to last 
minute rush & system failure. 
Candidates  should  read  the  instructions  in  the  advertisement  carefully  before 
making any entry of selecting options for filling online applications. 

2.  QUALIFICATION & ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA 

Post 

Name of 
Discipline 

Graduate Trainee 
(Mines) 

Mining 

Minimum Educational       Qualifications &Experience 

B.E/B.  Tech  in  Mining  or  equivalent  from  a 
recognized University/Institute with minimum 60% 
marks. 

During probation period the candidate has to submit 
copy  of  the  application  submitted  to  DGMS  along 
with valid Gas testing and first aid certificate and 1 
years’ experience in the Company for obtaining 2nd 
class  Mine  Manager’s  certificate  of  competency 
(unrestricted)  under MMR, 1961 DGMS. 

Graduate Trainee 
(Mechanical) 

Mechanical  B.E/B.  Tech  in  Mechanical  or  equivalent  from  a 
recognized University/Institute with minimum 60% 
marks. 

Graduate Trainee 
(Electrical)  

Electrical 

B.E/B.  Tech  in  Electrical/  Electrical  &  Electronics 
/Electronics  &  Telecommunications/Power  or 
equivalent  from  a  recognized  University/Institute 
with minimum 60% marks. 

Graduate Trainee 
(Chemical)  

Chemical  B.E./B.Tech  in  Chemical  Engineering  or  equivalent 
from  recognized  University/Institute  with  minimum 
60% marks. 

Management  
Trainee (Geology) 

Geology 

Post  Graduate  in  Geology/  Applied  Geology  with 
minimum 60% marks. 

Graduate Trainee 
(Process) 

i. Chemical  

ii. Metallurgy 

Process 

B.E/B.Tech in Chemical Engineering or equivalent 
from a recognized University/Institute with 
minimum 60% marks. 

B.E/B.Tech in Metallurgical Engineering or 
equivalent from a recognized University/Institute 
with minimum 60% marks. 

2 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
iii.Mineral 
Processing 

M. Tech in Mineral Processing or equivalent from a 
recognized University/Institute with minimum 60% 
marks. 

Management 

Trainee 
(Materials/Con
tract Mgmt) 

Material/Co
ntract Mgmt 

Engineering  Degree  in  Electrical/Mechanical/Civil 
discipline from a recognized university/Institute with 
minimum 60% marks. 

(OR) 

Management 
Trainee(Systems) 

Management 
Trainee 
(Personnel 
/Welfare) 

Management 
Trainee 
(Marketing) 

Personnel 

System 

Two years MBA/Post Graduate diploma(2 years) in 
Management in Production / Operations/ Materials 
/ Logistics / Supply Chain Management from 
University/Institute recognized by UGC/AICTE 
with minimum 60% marks. 
BE/B.Tech in Computer Science/Computer Science 
Engineering/Computer Science & Information 
Technology/Information Technology or MCA from a 
recognized University/Institute with minimum 60% 
marks. 
 P.G.  Degree  in  Social  Work  with  specialization  in 
Labour Welfare, Personnel Management and Industrial 
Relations with minimum 60% marks.  
Or 
in 
P.G.Degree/Diploma 
IRPM/Master in Labour    Studies from the recognized 
University/Institute with minimum 60% marks. 
Or 
MBA  with  specialization  in  Personnel  Management 
/HR/HRD from recognized University/Institute with 
minimum 60% marks.  
2. Preference will be given to Law Graduate. 
Marketing  MBA  (Full  Time)  in  Marketing/Foreign  Trade  or 
minimum  2  years  (Full  Time)  P.G.  Diploma  in 
Marketing  Management  /Foreign  Trade  from  a 
recognized  University  /Institute  with  minimum  60% 
marks.  
Or  
Engineering  Graduate 
(Full  Time)  with  PG 
Degree/Diploma  in  Marketing/Foreign  Trade  with 
minimum 60% marks. 

duration) 

years 

(2 

3 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Manager 
(Survey) 

Survey 

1. Graduate  from  a  recognized  university/  Institute 

with minimum 60% marks. 

2. Surveyor’s Certificate of competency 
(Unrestricted)  

Minimum  2  years’  post  qualification  experience  in 
surveying underground mining out of which 2 years’ 
in 
experience  (1  year  for 
immediate lower scale (IDA) i.e. Rs. 40000-140000 or 
equivalent (CDA)  

internal  candidate) 

  For  candidates  from private  sector,  CTC  should  be 

minimum Rs. 9.70 lakh per annum. 

NOTE: 

i. 

The  minimum  qualifying  marks  for  GENERAL  (UR),  OBC  (Non-Creamy  Layer), 
PwBD & Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) category candidates are 60%. For SC 
& ST candidates,  the minimum qualifying marks are 55% where the post is reserved 
for them. 

ii.  Wherever percentage (%) of marks is not awarded by the University/Institute and only 
grades (e.g. GPA / CGPA / CQPI) are awarded, the same should be converted to the 
exact equivalent percentage (%) of marks as per the following formula: 

On a 10 point scale CGPA/GPA of 6.0 will be considered as 60%. 

iii.  For  the  purpose  of  calculating  the  aggregate  final  marks,  the  aggregate  marks  of  all 
years / semesters / trimesters would be taken. Rounding of percentage (%) will not be 
acceptable  under  any  circumstances,  hence  60%  of  marks  and  above  will  only  be 
considered. 

iv.  SC, ST & OBC (Non-Creamy Layer) category candidates applying against General (UR) 
category post shall be considered on the General category merit and no relaxation in 
upper age limit, qualifying marks etc.will be given.  

v.  Graduation  must  also  be  from  University  /  Institute  recognized  by  appropriate 

Statutory Authority in India. 

vi.  Diploma/Graduation  in  any  Engineering  Discipline/B.E/B.Tech  must  be  from 

University/Institute recognized by appropriate Statutory Authority in India. 

vii.  Unless  specified  wherever  Engineering  Graduate  +  MBA/PG  Diploma  is  mentioned 
atleast one course shall be full time course. Wherever Graduate+MBA is mentioned the 
MBA should be full time course. 

viii.  MBA/PG Degree/M.Tech/ PG Diploma must be from University/Institute recognized 

by appropriate statutory Authority in India. 

4 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
 
In  case  of  any  dispute  arising  about  admissibility  of  any  particular    qualification the 
decision of CMD of MOIL shall be final and binding. 

3. 

TENTATIVE VACANCY 

Sr. 
No. 

Disciplines 

1  GT(Mines) 

2  GT(Mechanical) 

3  GT(Electrical) 

4  GT(Chemical) 

5  GT(Geology) 

GT(Process)* 

6 

Chemical 

Metallurgy 

Mineral 
Processing 
MT (Materials/ 
Contract 
Mgmt.)** 
8  MT(Marketing) 

7 

9  MT(Pers/Wel) 

10  MT(System) 
Manager 
(Survey) 
Grand Total 

11 

Category 

Total 

Vacancies 

General 

(UR) 

EWS  SC 

23 

09 

05 

03 

05 

02 

01 

01 

05 

01 

05 

04 

03 

67 

12 

06 

3 

03 

02 

01 

01 

- 

04 

01 

03 

03 

03 

41 

03 

- 

0 

0 

1 

0 

- 

- 

- 

-- 

- 

- 

5 

04 

01 

0 

0 

- 

- 

- 

01 

01 

- 

01 

- 

- 

8 

OBC 

(NCL) 

02 

01 

02 

0 

02 

01 

- 

- 

00 

- 

01 

01 

- 

10 

ST 

02 

01 

0 

0 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

3 

Abbreviations:  
UR-Un-reserved; SC-Schedule Caste; OBC-Other Backward Class(Non-
Creamy Layer); EWS- Economically Weaker Section 

*Depending  upon  the  requirement  of  the  Company,  above  posts  may  be  inter-changed 

within the process discipline. 

**  One  post  is  reserved  for  PwBD  candidates  on  horizontal  basis  in  materials/Contract 

Mgmt.  

Whenever in any recruitment year if any vacancy is earmarked for EWS cannot be filled due 

to  non-availability of a suitable candidate belonging to EWS, such vacancy for that particular 

recruitment year shall not be carried forward to the next recruitment year as backlog. 

5 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE: The above vacancies are tentative and depending on the requirements, the Company 

reserves the right to cancel/curtail/increase the number of posts without any further notice 

and without assigning any reason thereof. 

4. 

SELECTION PROCESS 

Before  applying  the  candidates  should  ensure  that  they  fulfill  all  the  eligibility  criteria. 

Admission to Computer Based Online Test will be purely provisional. Candidature will be 

subject  to  verification  of  details/documents  when  the  candidate  reports  for  interview,  if 

shortlisted  or  at  any  stage  of  the  recruitment  process/appointment.  Application  is  to  be 

submitted by a candidate only once and against only one of the posts, which means that a 

candidate can apply for any one post only. Candidates are advised to apply for the post most 

suitable to his/her qualification and experience etc. In case of multiple Applications, only 

the latest valid (completed) application will be retained and the application fee/ intimation 

charges paid for the other multiple registration(s) will stand forfeited. 

TEST CITIES: The Computer Based Online Test will be held Bengaluru, New Delhi/NCR, 

Kolkata,  Mumbai/Navi  Mumbai/Thane/MMR  Region,  Chennai,  Hyderabad,  Raipur, 

Bhopal & Nagpur. Candidates may opt for two test Cities from the list as per their preference 

and the same cannot be changed after the online form is submitted. MOIL reserves the right 

to allocate any Test city or change  the Test city      opted by the candidate. MOIL reserves the 

right to add or delete any city(s) from the list based on the number of applicants. 

COMPUTER BASED ONLINE TEST: The duration of Computer Based Online Test will be 

for 90 minutes (in one sitting) consisting of Objective Type question (MCQ) (85 marks) break-

up of which is General Knowledge for 10 marks, Reasoning for 10 marks & General English 

for 10 marks which will be combined as segment - I and Subject Knowledge will be for 55 

marks which will be segment - II.  Question paper will be available both in Hindi & English. 

However, in case of any error in Hindi  version, the English version of the question shall be 

valid & final. The qualifying marks for the Computer Based Online Test will be as under: 

Qualifying marks in the Computer Based Online Test 

General (UR)/EWS –  
50% of marks in each segment 

SC/ST/PwBD/OBC(NCL)- 
40% of marks in each segment 

Candidates are required to appear in the Computer Based Online Test at their own     expenses 

6 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
 
 
and if shortlisted in the Computer Based Online Test as per the above criteria, they will be 

called  for  Personal  Interview  as  per  their  merit  in  the  ratio  of  1:6  (6  candidates  against  1 

vacancy in respective category) keeping in view the provision of reservation for SC/ST/OBC 

(NCL)/PwBD/EWS. MOIL reserves the right to shortlist the candidates for Computer Based 

Online Test. 

PERSONAL INTERVIEW:  

List of candidates who are provisionally shortlisted for the Interview will be uploaded in the 

MOIL  website  and  they  will  be  intimated  about  the  date,  time  and  venue  of  interview 

through their registered E-mail Id as filled by the candidates in the online application form. 

The personal interview will be of 15 marks. 

Similarly, the final list of selected candidates will also be uploaded in the  MOIL website and 

they will also be intimated about documents verification (DV) & Pre-Employment Medical 

Examination through MOIL website and through their registered E-mail Id only. 

Final  merit  panel  will  be  prepared  based  on  the  consolidated  marks  of  Computer  Based 

Online Test and Personal Interview. 

5.  APPLICATION FEE 

Candidates  belonging  to  GENERAL  (UR)  /  EWS/OBC  (Creamy  Layer  &  Non-Creamy 

Layer)  category are required to pay a  non-refundable fee of Rs.590/- including GST (Five 

Hundred and Ninety only). For SC/ST/PwBD/EXS/Employees of MOIL are exempted from 

the payment of application fee. Application fee will be paid through Online mode only. There 

will be no other mode of payment of application fee. MOIL will not be responsible, in case 

a  candidate deposits the fee in any wrong account. 

Fee  once  paid  will  not  be  refunded  under  any  circumstances.  Candidates  are  therefore 

advised to verify their eligibility before applying. 

It may kindly be noted that MOIL does not seek payment of any kind other than the above 

mentioned application fee. 

7 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  UPPER AGE LIMIT 

The  upper  a ge  l imit as on 20/01/2026 is 30  years for Graduate Trainees / Management 

Trainees and 35 years for the post of Manager (Survey) for General(UR) & EWS candidates. 

Upper Age Limit is relaxed by: 

  3 Years for OBC (Non-Creamy Layer) 

  5 years for SC/ST 

  Persons with disabilities candidates: 

  By 10 years for General(UR) 

  By 13 years for OBC(NCL) 

  By 15 years for SC/ST 

  Relaxation for Ex-Servicemen category candidates is Service rendered in the Armed 

forces plus 03 years. 

NOTE: The Upper age limit is relaxed subject to the condition that maximum age of the 

applicant on the crucial date i.e. 20/01/2026 shall not exceed 53 years. 

7.  RESERVATIONS AND RELAXATIONS 

i. 

Reservations  and  relaxations  for  SC/ST/OBC  (Non-Creamy  Layer)/EWS/  PwBD 

candidates will be provided as per guidelines of Govt. of India for the purpose.  The 

reservation for PwBD Persons with Benchmark Disabilities is on horizontal basis. The 

posts of PwBD categories are reserved as per existing Government of India guidelines 

and the candidates having a minimum of 40% disability are only eligible to apply under 

PwBD category. 

ii. 

SC,  ST  &  OBC  (Non-Creamy  Layer)  category  candidates  applying  against  General  (UR) 

category post shall be considered on the General category merit and no relaxation in upper age 

limit will be given.  

iii.  Relaxations for  employees of MOIL  Limited 

applying 

online 

against 

the 

advertisement  will  be as  per  the  rules of the  company  i.e.  maximum age limit  is  not 

applicable in case of Departmental candidates and there is no application fee. 

iv.  For getting benefits of reservation under OBC category: 

(a) The name of caste and community of the candidate must appear in the “Central 

List of Other Backward Classes”. 

8 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
 
(b) The candidates must not belong to Creamy layer. 

(c)  The  candidates  need  to  furnish  their  latest  (issued  within  one  year)  OBC 

Certificate as per format prescribed by Govt. of India. 

v. 

For getting benefits of reservation under EWS category: 

(a) Should not be covered under the scheme of reservation for SCs, STs and OBCs and 

whose family has gross annual income below Rs. 8.00 Lakhs ( Rupees Eight Lakhs 

Only).  Income  shall  also  include  income  all  sources  i.e.  salary,  agriculture, 

business, profession, etc. for the financial year prior to the year of application. 

Also persons whose family owns or possesses any of the following assets shall be 

excluded from being identified as EWS, irrespective of the family income:- 

  5 acres of agricultural land and above; 

  Residential Flat of 1000 Sq Ft and above; 

  Residential Plot of 100 Sq Yards and above in notified municipalities; 

  Residential Plot of 200 Sq yards and above in areas other than the Notified 

Municipalities. 

(b)  The  property  held  by  a  “Family”  in  different  locations  or  different  places/ 

cities would be clubbed while applying the land or property holding test  to 

determine EWS Status. 

(c)  The term “Family” for this purpose will include the person who seeks benefits 

of reservation, his/her parents and siblings  below the age of 18 years as also 

his/her spouse and children below the age of 18 years. 

(d) The  benefit  of  reservation  under  EWS  can  be  availed  upon  production  of  an 

Income and Asset Certificate issued by Competent Authority. The income and 

Asset  Certificate  issued  by  any  one  of  the  following  authorities  in 

the 

prescribed  format  shall  only  be  accepted  as  proof  of  candidate’s  claim  as 

belonging to EWS: 

  District  Magistrate/  Additional  District  magistrate/  Collector/  Deputy 

Commissioner/  Additional  Deputy  Commissioner/  1st  Class  Stipendiary 

Magistrate/  Sub  Divisional  Magistrate/  Taluka  Magistrate/  Executive 

Magistrate/ Extra Assistant Commissioner. 

9 | P a ge 
e 

 
  Chief  Presidency  Magistrate/  Additional  Chief  Presidency  Magistrate/ 

Presidency Magistrate 

  Revenue Officer not below the rank of Tehsildar and 

  Sub-Divisional  Officer  of  the  Area  where  the  candidate  and  /or  his  family 

normally  resides. 

8.  OTHER DETAILS 

COMPENSATION 

/  PAY:  Selected  candidates  will  be  placed  as  Graduate 

Trainee/Management Trainee in the scale of pay of Rs. 40,000 – 1,40,000/- (E-01) at the initial 

Basic of Rs. 40,000/- per month during the training period. On successful and satisfactory 

completion of 1-year training period regularization will be in E-2 Grade in the scale of pay 

of Rs. 50,000 – 1,60,000/- at the initial Basic of Rs. 50,000/- on probation for 1 year as per the 

rules of the Company.  For Manager(Survey) post  selected candidate will be placed in the 

scale  of  E-2  grade  of  Rs.  50,000-1,60,000/-  on  probation  for  1  year.  Besides  Basic  pay, 

candidates  will  also  be  entitled  to  Dearness  Allowance,  HRA,  perquisites  and  allowances 

under cafeteria approach and other allowances including Performance Related Pay (PRP) as 

applicable  for  the  post.  Benefits  such  as  Leave,  Free  Medical  Attention,  Contributory 

Provident Fund, Family Pension, Insurance Linked Gratuity, Group Superannuation Cash 

Accumulation Scheme (Defined Contribution), etc. will be payable. The  actual remuneration 

may vary depending on place of posting, financial performance of the Company and also 

performance rating of individual. 

POSTING:  Candidates  may  be  posted  anywhere  in  Company’s  mines  situated  in 

Maharashtra or Madhya Pradesh or at any Place at the discretion of the Management. 

MEDICAL  EXAMINATION:  Before  appointment,  the  selected  candidates  will  have  to 

undergo  Pre-Employment  Medical  Examination  by  the  company’s  Medical  Officer.  The 

decision of the Medical Officer will be final and binding. 

9.  HOW TO APPLY 

DETAILED GUIDELINES/PROCEDURES FOR 

A.  APPLICATION REGISTRATION 

B.  PAYMENT OF FEES 

C.  DOCUMENT SCAN AND UPLOAD 

10 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
 
 
Candidates can apply online only from 30/12/2025 to 20/01/2026 and no other mode                  of 

application will be accepted. 

IMPORTANT POINTS TO BE NOTED BEFORE REGISTRATION 

Before applying online, candidates should - 

(i) 

scan their : 

-  photograph (4.5cm × 3.5cm) 

- 

- 

signature (with black ink) 

left thumb impression (on white paper with black or blue ink) 

-  a  hand  written declaration  (on a  white  paper with  b l u e / black  ink) 

(text given below) 

(ii) 

ensuring that the all these scanned documents adhere to the  required 

specifications as  given in  this Advertisement. 

(iii) 

Signature in CAPITAL LETTERS will NOT be accepted. 

(iv)  The left thumb impression should be properly scanned and  not smudged. (If 

a candidate is not having left thumb, he/she may use his/ her right thumb for 

applying.) 

(v)  The text for the hand written declaration is as follows – 

“I, 

(Name  of  the  candidate),  hereby  declare  that  all  the 

information submitted by me in the application form is correct, true and valid. 

I will present the supporting documents as and when required.” 

(vi)  The above mentioned hand written declaration has to be in the candidate’s 

hand writing and in English only. If it is written and uploaded by anybody 

else or in any other language, the application will be considered as invalid.  

(vii)  Keep the necessary details/documents ready to make Online Payment of the 

requisite application fee/ intimation charges 

(viii)  Have a valid personal email ID and mobile no., which should be kept active 

till the completion of this Recruitment Process. MOIL may send intimation 

to download call letters for the Examination etc. through the registered e-mail 

ID.  In  case  a  candidate  does  not  have  a  valid  personal  e-mail  ID,  he/she 

should create his/her new e-mail ID and mobile no. before applying on-line 

and must maintain that email account and mobile number. 

11 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
APPLICATION  FEES/  INTIMATION  CHARGES (NON  REFUNDABLE)  PAYMENT  OF 

FEE ONLINE FROM 30/12/2025 to 20/01/2026. 

Bank Transaction charges for Online Payment of application fees/intimation charges will 

have to be borne by the candidate. 

A.  Application Registration 

1.  Candidates to go to the MOIL website www.moil.nic.in click on the Recruitment 

click on the option "APPLY ONLINE" which will open a new screen. 

2. 

To  register  application,  choose  the  tab  "Click  here  for  New  Registration"  and 

enter  Name,  Contact  details  and  Email-id.  A  Provisional  Registration  Number 

and  Password  will  be  generated  by  the  system  and  displayed  on  the screen. 

Candidate should note down the Provisional Registration Number and Password. 

An Email & SMS indicating the Provisional Registration number and Password 

will also be sent. 

3. 

In case the candidate is unable to complete the application  form in one go, he / 

she can save the data already entered by choosing "SAVE AND NEXT" tab. Prior 

to submission of the online application candidates are advised to use the "SAVE 

AND  NEXT"  facility  to  verify  the  details  in  the  online  application  form  and 

modify the same if required.  

4.  Candidates are advised to carefully fill and verify the details filled in  the online 

application themselves as no change will  be possible/ entertained after clicking 

the FINAL SUBMIT BUTTON. 

5. 

The  name  of  the  candidate  or  his  /her  Father/  Husband  etc.  should  be  spelt 

correctly in the application as it appears in the Certificates/ Mark sheets/Identity 

proof. Any change/alteration found may disqualify the candidature. 

6.  Validate  your  details  and  Save  your  application  by  clicking  the  'Validate  your 

details' and 'Save & Next' button. 

7.  Candidates  can  proceed  to  upload  Photo  &  Signature  as  per  the      specifications 

given in the Guidelines for Scanning and Upload  of Photograph and Signature 

detailed under point "C". 

8.  Candidates can proceed to fill other details of the Application Form. 

12 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
9.  Click on the Preview Tab to preview and verify the entire application form before 

FINAL SUBMIT. 

10.  Modify details, if required, and click on 'FINAL SUBMIT' ONLY after verifying 

and ensuring that the photograph, signature uploaded and other details filled by 

you are correct. 

11.  Click on 'Payment' Tab and proceed for payment. 

12.  Click on 'Submit' button. 

B. 

PAYMENT OF FEES 

ONLINE MODE 

1.  The  application  form  is  integrated  with  the  payment  gateway  and  the  payment 

process can be completed by following the instructions. 

2.  The  payment  can  be  made  by  using  Debit  Cards  (RuPay/  Visa/  MasterCard/ 

Maestro), Credit Cards, Internet Banking, IMPS, Cash Cards/ Mobile Wallets. 

3.  After submitting your payment information in the online application form, PLEASE 

WAIT  FOR  THE  INTIMATION FROM  THE  SERVER.  DO  NOT  PRESS  BACK  OR 

REFRESH BUTTON IN ORDER TO AVOID DOUBLE CHARGE 

4.  On successful completion of the transaction, an e-Receipt will be generated. 

5.  Non-generation of 'E-Receipt' indicates PAYMENT FAILURE. On failure of payment, 

Candidates are advised to login again using their Provisional Registration Number 

and Password and repeat the process of payment. 

6.  Candidates are required to take a printout of the e-Receipt and online Application 

Form containing fee details. Please note that if the same cannot be generated, online 

transaction may not have been successful. 

7.  For Credit Card users: All charges are listed in Indian Rupee. If you use a non-Indian 

credit  card,  your  bank  will  convert  to  your  local  currency  based  on prevailing 

exchange rates. 

8.  To  ensure  the  security  of  your  data,  please  close  the  browser  window  once  your 

transaction is completed. 

9.  There is facility to print application form containing fee details after payment of 

fees. 

13 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
 
C.   Guidelines for scanning and Upload of Documents 

Before  applying  online,  a  candidate  will  be  required  to  have  a  scanned  (digital) image of 

his/her photograph and signature as per the specifications given below. Photograph Image: 

- 

Photograph must be a recent passport style colour picture. 

-  Make  sure  that  the  picture  is  in  colour,  taken  against  a  light-coloured,  preferably 

white, background. 

Look straight at the camera with a relaxed face. 

If the picture is taken on a sunny day, have the sun behind you, or place yourself in the 

shade, so that you are not squinting and there are no harsh shadows 

If you have to use flash, ensure there's no "red-eye" 

If you wear glasses make sure that there are no reflections and your eyes can be clearly 

seen. 

Caps,  hats  and  dark  glasses  are  not  acceptable.  Religious  headwear  is  allowed  but it 

must not cover your face. 

Dimensions 200 x 230 pixels (preferred). 

Size of file should be between 20kb–50 kb. 

Ensure  that  the  size of  the  scanned image  is  not  more  than  50kb.  If  the size of the file 

is more than 50 kb, then adjust the settings of the scanner such as the DPI resolution, no. 

of colours etc., during the process of scanning. 

If  the  photo  is  not  uploaded  at  the  place  of  Photo,  Admission  for  Examination  will  be 

rejected/denied. Candidate him/herself will be responsible for the same. 

Candidate should also ensure that photo is uploaded at the place of photo and signature 

at the place of signature. If photo in place of photo and signature  in place of signature 

is not uploaded properly, candidate will not be allowed to appear for the exam. 

Candidate must ensure that Photo to be uploaded is of required size and the face should 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

be clearly visible. 

Signature, left thumb impression and hand-written declaration Image: 

- 

- 

- 

The applicant has to sign on white paper with Black Ink pen. 

The  applicant  has  to  put  his  left  thumb  impression  on  a  white  paper  with  black or 

blue ink. 

The  applicant  has  to  write  the  declaration  in  English  clearly  on  a  white  paper with 

black ink 

14 | P a ge 
e 

 
- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

The signature,  left thumb impression and  the hand  written  declaration      should be of 

the applicant and not by any other person. 

The  signature  will  be  used to  put  on the  Call  Letter  and  wherever                  necessary. 

If the applicant’s signature on the attendance sheet or Call letter, signed at the time of 

the examination, does not match the signature uploaded, the applicant will be 

disqualified. 

Dimensions 140 x 60 pixels (preferred) 

Size of file should be between 10kb – 20kb for signature and left thumb impression. 

For hand written declaration size of file should be 20kb – 50 kb 

Ensure that the size of the scanned image is not more than 20kb or 50 kb (for hand 

written declaration) 

Signature /  Hand  written  declaration in CAPITAL LETTERS shall  NOT be accepted. 

Scanning the documents: 

- 

- 

Set the scanner resolution to a minimum of 200 dpi (dots per inch) 

Set Colour to True Colour. 

-  Crop the image in the scanner to the edge of the left thumb impression / hand written 

declaration, then use the upload editor to crop the image to the  final size (as specified 

above). 

- 

- 

The image file should be JPG or JPEG format. An example file name is:  image01.jpg or 

image01.jpeg 

Image dimensions can be checked by listing the folder files or moving the mouse over 

the file image icon. 

-  Candidates using MS Windows/MSOffice can easily obtain documents in .jpeg format 

by using MS Paint or MS Office  Picture  Manager.  Scanned  documents  in  any format 

can be saved in .jpg / .jpeg format by using  ‘Save  As’  option  in  the  File menu. Size 

can be adjusted  by  using crop and then resize option. 

If the file size and format are not as prescribed, an error message will be displayed. 

-  While filling in the Online Application Form the candidate will be provided with 

a  link  to  upload  his/her  photograph,  signature,  left  thumb  impression  and  hand 

written declaration. 

Left thumb impression: 

•  The applicant has  to put  his left  thumb impression on  a white paper with black or 

15 | P a ge 
e 

 
blue ink. 

•  The hand written declaration should be of the applicant and not by any  other person. 

•  File type: jpg / jpeg 

•  Dimensions: 240 x 240 pixels in 200 DPI (Preferred for required quality) i.e 3 

cm * 3 cm (Width * Height) 

•  File Size: 20 KB – 50 KB 

Hand-written declaration: 

•  Hand written declaration content is to be as expected. 

•  Hand written declaration should not be written in CAPITAL LETTERS. 

• 

• 

The  applicant  has  to  write  the  declaration  in  English  clearly  on  a  white  paper  with 
black or blue ink. 

The  hand  written  declaration  should  be  of  the  applicant  and  not  by  any  other 
person. 

•  Hand written Declaration 

•  File type: jpg / jpeg 

•  Dimensions:  800 x 400 pixels in 200 DPI (Preferred  for required quality) i.e 

10 cm * 5 cm (Width * Height) 

•  File Size: 50 KB – 100 KB 

Procedure for Uploading the documents 

-  While filling in the Online Application Form the candidate will be provided with 

separate links  for uploading  left  thumb  impression  and  hand written declaration 

-  Click  on  the  respective 

link  “Upload  left  thumb  impression  /  hand

written   declaration” 

-  Browse  and  Select  the  location  where  the  Scanned  left  thumb  impression  /  hand 

written declaration file has been saved. 

-  Select the file by clicking on it 

-  Click the ‘Open/Upload’ button  Your  Online  Application  will  not  be   registered 
unless  you  upload  your  Left  thumb  impression  and  hand  written  declaration  as 
specified. 

- 

If the file size and format are not as prescribed, an error message will be displayed. 

-  Preview of the uploaded image will help to see the quality of the image. In case of unclear 

/ smudged, the same may be re-uploaded to the expected clarity /quality. 

Note: 

(1)  In case the left thumb impression or the hand written declaration is unclear / smudged 

the candidate’s application may be rejected. 

(2)  After  uploading  the  left  thumb  impression  /  hand  written  declaration  in  the  online 
application form candidates  should  check  that  the  images  are  clear  and  have been 

16 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
uploaded correctly. In case the left thumb impression or the hand written declaration is 
not  prominently  visible,  the  candidate  may  edit  his/  her  application  and re-upload 
his/ her thumb impression / hand written declaration, prior to submitting the form. 

(3)  After  registering  online  candidates  are  advised  to  take  a  printout  of  their  system 

generated online application forms. 

10.  DOWNLOAD OF CALL LETTER 

Candidates will have to visit the MOIL website for downloading call letters for online test. 

Intimation  for  downloading  call  letter  will  also  be  sent  through  email/SMS.  Once  the 

candidate clicks the relevant link, he/she can access the window for call letter download. 

The candidate is required to use (i) Registration Number/Roll Number, (ii) Password/Date 

of  Birth  for  downloading  the  call  letter.  Candidate  needs  to  affix  recent  recognizable 

photograph on the call letter preferably the same as provided during registration and appear 

at the examination centre with (i) Call Letter (ii) Photo Identity Proof as stipulated in  clause 

identity verification  below and also specified in the call letter and photocopy of the same 

Photo Identity Proof as brought in original. 

CANDIDATES REPORTING LATE i.e. after the reporting time specified on the call letter 

for  Examination  will  not  be  permitted  to  take  the  examination.  The  reporting 

time 

mentioned on the call letter is prior to the start time of the test. Though the duration of the 

examination is 90 minutes, candidates may be required to be at the venue for about 4 hours 

including the time required for completion of various formalities such as verification and 

collection of various requisite documents, logging in, giving of instructions. 

11. 

IDENTITY VERIFICATION 

In the examination hall as well  as at the time of interview, the call letter along with original 

and a photocopy of the candidate’s currently valid photo identity (bearing exactly the same 

name as it appears on the call letter) such as PAN Card/ Passport/ Permanent  Driving 

License/Voter’s Card/ Bank Passbook with photograph/ Photo identity proof issued by a 

Gazetted Officer on official letterhead along with photograph / Photo identity proof issued 

by a People’s Representative on official letterhead along with photograph / valid recent 

Identity  Card  issued  by  a  recognized  College/  University/  Aadhaar  card/  E-  Aadhaar 

Card  with  a  photograph/  Employee  ID/  Bar  Council  Identity  Card  with  photograph 

should  be  submitted  to  the  invigilator  for  verification.  The  candidate’s  identity  will  be 

17 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
 
 
verified with respect to his/her details on the call letter, in the Attendance List and requisite 

documents  submitted.  If  identity of  the  candidate  is  in  doubt  the candidate  may  not  be 

allowed to appear for the Examination. 

Ration Card and Learner’s Driving License are not valid id proof. 

Note:  Candidates  have  to  produce  in  original  the  photo  identity  proof  and  submit 

photocopy  of  the  photo  identity  proof  along  with  Examination  call  letter  as  well  as  the 

Interview  Call  Letter  while  attending  the  examination/  interview  respectively,  without 

which they will not be allowed to take up the examination/ interview. Candidates must note 

that the name as appearing on  the call letter (provided during the process of registration) 

should exactly match the name as appearing on the photo identity proof. Female candidates 

who have changed first/last/middle name post marriage must take special note of this. If 

there is any mismatch between the name indicated in the Call Letter and Photo Identity Proof 

the candidate will not be allowed to appear for the examination. In case of candidates who 

have changed their name, will be allowed only if they produce original Gazette notification 

/ their original marriage certificate / affidavit in original. 

12.  GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS : 

1.  The examination will be conducted online in venues given in the respective call letters. 

2.  No  request  for  change  of  centre/venue/date/session  for  Examination  shall  be 

entertained. 

3.  MOIL, however, reserves the right to cancel any of the Examination Centres and/ or 

add some other centres, at its discretion, depending upon the response, administrative 

feasibility, etc. 

4.  MOIL  also  reserves  the  right  to  allot  the  candidate  to  any  centre  other  than  the one 

he/she has opted for. 

5.  Candidate will  appear for the examination at an Examination Centre at his/her own 

risks and expenses and MOIL will not be responsible for any injury or losses etc. of any 

nature. 

6.  Choice of centre once exercised by the candidate will be final. 

If  sufficient  number  of  candidates  does  not  opt  for  a  particular  centre  for  "Online" 

examination OR if the number of candidates is more than the capacity available for online 

18 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
 
 
exam for a centre, MOIL reserves the right to allot any other centre to the candidate. 

          GUIDELINES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES USING A SCRIBE  

The visually impaired candidates and candidates whose writing speed is adversely affected 

permanently  for  any  reason  can  use  their  own  scribe  at  their  cost  during  the  online 

examination, subject to limits as in (ii) and (iii) below. In all such cases where a scribe is used, 

the following rules will apply:  

•The candidate will have to arrange his/her own scribe at his/her own cost.  

•The scribe arranged by the candidate should not be a candidate for the same examination. 

If  violation  of  the  above  is  detected  at  any  stage  of  the  process,  candidature  of  both  the 

candidate and the scribe will be cancelled. Candidates eligible for and who wish to use the 

services of a scribe in the examination should invariably carefully indicate the same in the 

online application form. Any subsequent request may not be favourably entertained.  

•A person acting as a scribe for one candidate cannot be a scribe for another candidate.  

•The  scribe  may  be  from  any  academic  stream.  The  scribe  should  be  from  an  academic 

stream different from that prescribed for the post.  

•Both the candidate as well as scribe will have to give a suitable undertaking confirming that 

the scribe fulfills all the stipulated eligibility criteria for a scribe mentioned above. Further in 

case  it  later  transpires  that  he/she  did  not  fulfill  any  laid  down  eligibility  criteria  or 

suppressed material facts the candidature of the applicant will stand cancelled, irrespective 

of the result of the online examination.  

•Those candidates who use a scribe shall be eligible for compensatory time of 20 minutes for 

every hour of the examination or as otherwise advised. 

Scribe  should  not  answer  on  his/her  own.  Any  such  behaviour  observed  will  result  in 

cancellation of candidature 

•Only candidates registered for compensatory time will be allowed such concessions since 

compensatory time given to candidates shall be system based, it shall not be possible for the 

test  conducting  agency  to  allow  such  time  if  he  /  she  is  not  registered  for  the  same. 

Candidates not registered for compensatory time shall not be allowed such concessions.  

(ii)Guidelines for Candidates with locomotor disability and cerebral palsy  

A compensatory time of twenty minutes per hour or otherwise advised shall be permitted 

for the candidates with locomotor disability and cerebral palsy where dominant (writing) 

19 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
extremity  is  affected  to  the  extent  of  slowing  the  performance  of  function  (minimum  of 

40%impairment).  

(iii)Guidelines for Visually Impaired candidates 

 Visually Impaired candidates (who suffer from not less than 40% of disability) may opt to 

view the contents of the test in magnified font and all such candidates will be eligible for 

compensatory time of 20 minutes for every hour or otherwise advised of examination.  

 The facility of viewing the contents of the test in magnifying font will not be available to 

Visually Impaired candidates who use the services of a Scribe for the examination 

These guidelines are subject to change in terms of GOI guidelines/ clarifications, if any, from 

time to time.  

13. 

OTHER CLAUSES 

1.  The possibility of occurrence of some problem in the administration of the examination 

cannot be ruled out completely which may impact test delivery and/or result from being 

generated. In that event, every effort will be made to rectify such problem, which may 

include  movement of candidates, delay in test. Conduct of a re-exam is at the absolute 

discretion  of  test  conducting  body.  Candidates  will  not  have  any  claim  for  a  re-test. 

Candidates not willing to move or not willing to participate in the delayed process of 

test delivery shall be summarily rejected from the process. 

2.  Decision of MOIL in all matters relating to recruitment will be final and binding on the 

candidate. No correspondence or personal enquiries shall be entertained by the MOIL in 

this behalf. 

3.  MOIL would be analyzing the responses (answers) of individual candidates with those 

of other candidates to detect patterns of similarity of right and wrong answers. If in the 

analytical procedure adopted by MOIL in this regard, it is inferred/ concluded that the 

responses have been shared and scores obtained are not genuine/ valid, MOIL reserves 

right  to  cancel  the  candidature  of  the  concerned  candidates  and  the  result  of  such 

candidates (disqualified) will be withheld. 

4. 

Instances for providing incorrect information and/or process violation by a candidate 

detected at any stage of the selection process will lead of disqualification of the candidate 

from  the  selection  process  and  he/she  will  not  be  allowed  to  appear  in  any  MOIL 

recruitment process in the  future. If such instances go undetected during the current 

selection  process  but  are  detected  subsequently,  such  disqualification  will  take  place 

20 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
with retrospective effect. 

5.  Process for Arriving at Scores 

The Scores of Online Examination are obtained by adopting the following procedure: 

i.  Number  of  questions  answered  correctly  by  a  candidate  in  each  objective  test  is 

considered  for  arriving  at  the  Corrected  Score  after  applying  penalty  for  wrong 

answers. For every wrong answer ¼th of the marks assigned to that question will be 

deducted as penalty.  

ii.  The Corrected scores so obtained by a candidate are made equivalent to take care of 

the minor difference in difficulty level, if any, in each of the objective tests held in 

different sessions to arrive at the equated scores* 

* Scores obtained by candidates on any test are equated to the base form by considering the 

distribution of scores of all the forms. 

iii.  Test wise scores and scores on total is reported with decimal point up to two 

digits. Note: Cutoffs are applied in two stages: 

i.  on scores in individual tests 

ii.  on total score 

14.  GENERAL INFORMATION 

i.  Only Indian Nationals are eligible to apply. 

ii.  All  qualifications  should  be  recognized  by  AICTE  /  UGC  /  appropriate  Indian 

statutory  authorities. 

iii.  For the above posts, age, qualification, experience etc., would be as on 20/01/2026. 

iv.  No TA/DA will be paid to any candidate (including SC / ST /OBC/ EWS/PwBD 

candidate) for          appearing in the Computer based Online Test. 

v. 

If any information provided by the candidate is found to be false or incorrect or is 

not in conformity with the eligibility criteria, then his / her candidature is liable to 

be  rejected  at  any  stage  of  the  recruitment  process  or  even  after  recruitment  or 

joining. 

vi.  MOIL will not undertake detailed scrutiny of online applications for eligibility and 

21 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
 
other  aspects  at  the  time  of  computer  based  online  test  and,  therefore,  the 

candidature  is  only  provisional.  Before  applying,  candidates  are  advised  to  go 

through  the  requirements  of  essential  qualification,  age,  experience  etc.  and 

satisfy themselves that they are eligible for the post. When scrutiny is undertaken, 

if any claim made in the application is not found substantiated, the candidature will 

be cancelled and decision of MOIL shall be final. 

vii.  No modifications are allowed after candidate submits the online application form. 

If any discrepancies are found in the data filled by the candidate online and that of 

the original testimonies, the candidature of such candidates is liable to be rejected. 

Hence,  utmost care should be taken to furnish correct details before submitting the 

online application. 

viii. Candidates employed with Government / Semi-Govt. / Public Sector Undertaking 

/  Autonomous  body  should  produce  No  Objection  Certificate  (NOC)  from  the 

present  employer  at  the  time  of  interview,  failing  which  they  will  neither  be 

interviewed nor be paid any TA. Candidate shall produce all original certificates, 

documents before interview failing  which they will neither be interviewed nor be 

paid any TA. 

ix.  The candidates must have an active E-mail Id & Mobile number which must remain 

valid for at least next one year. All future communications with the candidates will 

take place only through e-mail. Candidates have to ensure accuracy of their e-mail 

id & Mobile number. No change in E-mail Id & Mobile number as declared in the 

online application will be allowed. 

x.  For  queries,  candidates  are  advised  to  visit  the  Frequently  Asked  Questions 

(FAQs) for registrations. 

xi.  In order to regulate the number of candidates to be called for the Test, if so required, 

the Management  reserves  the  right  to  raise  the  minimum  eligibility  standards 

/criteria depending upon the response to the advertised posts. 

xii.  Merely meeting the above qualifications and experience shall not entitle a candidate to be 

called for online Test. Only shortlisted candidates will be notified for Test. 

xiii. Depending on the requirements, MOIL reserves the right to cancel/curtail/increase 

the number of posts without any further notice and without assigning any reason 

22 | P a ge 
e 

 
thereof. 

xiv. Any modifications / amendments / corrigendum in the advertisement will be given 

in MOIL’s website www.moil.nic.in only. 

xv.  Candidates  are  also  advised  not  to  respond  to  unscrupulous  advertisements 

appearing in any newspaper. For authenticity of any advertisement the candidate 

may check on MOIL’s website www.moil.nic.in only. 

xvi. All correspondences / announcements with respect to above recruitment process 

shall be done through E-mail / Notices on MOIL website www.moil.nic.in only. 

Important  information  regarding  recruitment  will  be  available  in  MOIL  website 

only and as such, candidates are advised to visit the same frequently. Responsibility 

of  receiving,  downloading  and  printing  of  the  Admit  Card  /  Interview  Letters, 

information  / communication etc. will be of the candidate. Company will not be 

responsible for any loss of email sent, due to invalid / wrong Email ID provided by 

the  candidate  in  online  application  or  due  to  any  other  reason.  Candidates  are 

advised to retain the same E-mail Id and Mobile number active for at least 1 year. 

xvii.  In case of any problems faced by the candidates in filling up the online application 

they  may write to Email Id: recruit@moil.nic.in only. 

xviii. MOIL  reserves  the  right  to  shortlist  candidates  for  Computer  Based  Online  Test, 

reschedule  the  test  date  &  venue  etc.  or  alter  any  of  the  advertised  condition 

depending upon the circumstances. 

xix.  Canvassing by a candidate in any form shall disqualify his/her candidature. 

xx.  Any  dispute  with  regard  to  recruitment  against  the  above  advertisement  will  be 

settled within the jurisdiction of Nagpur only. 

15.  ACTION AGAINST CANDIDATES FOUND GUILTY OF MISCONDUCT/ USE OF 

UNFAIR MEANS 

Candidates are advised in their own interest that they should not furnish any particulars 

that  are  false,  tampered  with  or  fabricated  and  should  not  suppress  any  material 

information while submitting online application. At the time of examination, interview or 

in a subsequent selection procedure, if a candidate is (or has been) found guilty of – 

1)  using unfair means or 

2)  impersonating or procuring impersonation by any person or 

23 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
3)  misbehaving in the examination/ interview hall or disclosing, publishing, reproducing, 

transmitting, storing or facilitating transmission and storage of contents of the test(s) or 

any information therein in whole or part thereof in any form or by  any means, verbal or 

written, electronically or mechanically for any purpose or 

4)  resorting to any irregular or improper means in connection with his/her candidature or 

5)  obtaining support for his/ her candidature by unfair means, or 

6)  carrying  mobile  phones  or  similar  electronic  devices  of  communication  in  the 

examination/  interview  hall,  such  a  candidate  may,  in  addition  to  rendering  himself/ 

herself liable to criminal prosecution, be liable: 

(a) 

(b) 

to be disqualified from the examination for which he/ she is a candidate 

to be debarred either permanently or for a specified period from any examination 

conducted by MOIL. 

(c) 

for termination of service, if he/ she has already joined the MOIL. 

16.  MOIL’s DECISION FINAL 

The decision of CMD, MOIL in all matters relating to eligibility, acceptance or rejection of 

applications, penalty for false information, mode of selection, conduct of examination(s) and 

interviews,  allotment  of  examination  centres,  selection  and  posting  of  selected  candidates 

will  be  final  and  binding  on  the  candidates  and  no  enquiry/correspondence  will  be 

entertained in this regard. 

                                                                                                                                 MOIL Ltd, Nagpur 

     Jt. General Manager (Pers.)  

24 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25 | P a ge 
e 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
